Hi guys.
[Music]
Uh yeah, as always, let's wait for
others. Uh let's give them like five
minutes. Okay,
I have some questions there. Uh so I'm
not sure about this training. So, do we
have those calls on uh weekend as well?
I mean, Saturday and Sunday.
No, no, Monday, Wednesday, next week.
Okay. Mon. Yeah. Okay. Cuz in my
calendar it like sounds different. Okay.
So, it's this week that's live day then
next week.
Yes. So, weekend is off and then we have
three days more.
Yep. Okay. Sounds good.
Okay guys, since uh you are here, we'll
others will probably join in a moment.
Uh so my idea is to do also the theory
first today. So all the guys from
Falcrum you'll be able to uh then go
because you want to do practice outside.
So uh we have only one theory topic for
today. So I will again switch the order.
So we'll do the theory for the ACL and
then we'll go back
uh to the practice about view page
and all the scrut
okay. Do you have anything against?
Okay.
I will start slowly. So if
someone wants to join then
okay
I send you slides already so you should
have it.
And for now I'm going to close the topic
number six. We're going to go back to
the practice just after the theory.
Um okay.
Um so the topic is about ACL like
basically about the security and how we
do it uh in Oro. Uh so in general I'm
sure you know or what we have security
and uh probably most you would like to
protect all the entities
uh or all the actions like create, view,
update and so on.
Uh so here our general idea is that um
we have user roles for back office we
have separate entity for storefront we
have separate entity. Uh so for back
office our users are here. Those are
users and roles are here. For storefront
we have customer users and customer user
roles. But I will show you in a moment.
Uh actually at the end I will show you
customer user entities. Um now we're
going to talk about those users and
those roles back office roles. Uh but uh
in general the idea is exactly the same.
Uh how we use it is exactly the same.
You will also see all the edit page.
Hi, we just started so you didn't miss a
lot.
Uh so you'll see that though we have
different role entities for back office
and for storefront they look pretty
similar and the functionality behind
this it's actually identical. Uh we just
have different entities uh because we
have different user entities.
Uh so permissions are assigned to roles.
We do not assign a permission directly
to some users. We create a role as a set
of permissions that tell us that user
that has this role will be able to do
something.
So then our user uh can have one or more
role. So if I have two roles and uh I
have like a sum of um permissions. So if
role A doesn't have permission to
some entity but role B has permission
and I have both roles at the end I will
have permission. So allowing access
wins.
Um now all of this uh inside those roles
will be able to specify what I as a
login logged in user what I can see and
this will also have some levels of
visibility. So I will be able to have a
contacts list but sometimes some users
uh will see all the contacts some only
contacts that they created and uh or all
the contacts from uh their business
unit. Um and this is the skiery that we
have in a back office. So first of all
we have organization.
Uh then in the organization we have
business units and you can have multiple
business units in one organization and
they can also be um built as a tree. So
we have main business unit and some
child business units. Okay. So Acme
general is a main business units
business unit and then this uh acme
general has two child business units
acme east and acme west. So here we can
also build a structure from it. Uh so
for example you can have a company and
company can have divisions and those
divisions can have hierarchy and this is
exactly what we will do with business
units. Then whenever you create the user
you assign user to some particular
business unit. Okay. So we have this uh
organizations, business units and user
are assigned to business unit
and based all those on those levels like
user, business unit, organization. I
will show you in a moment uh how and
what to do to be able to uh give access
to different set of records uh per role.
Um so uh connected to this oh actually I
haven't uh showing you the RO. Okay. So,
how this RO
uh looks
those are my roles and inside I can
specify
uh particular permissions. So, per
entity and per action and then we also
have
um like permissions like I can do
something or not. So, true false. I will
show you in a moment in details how to
add this, how to add those, how to
specify all this. So this is how the
back office user role edit edit looks
like and for the customer user roles.
So the storefront role uh we have
different set of roles but inside the
idea is the same. We also have set of
entities and permissions per action.
Then also some additional actions. Okay.
And uh for storefront rows we can have
different set of entities. Then we have
for back office which is true because
here the list is very very very long. I
can scroll down and scroll down and yep
and here we have totally different set
of entities. How to specify uh which
entity goes where? I'll show you that
during this topic.
Uh okay. So strongly connected to that
part is an ownership. So your entity
doesn't need to have an owner. It uh but
you can specify ownership for this
entity and this owner can be represented
by one of those entities. This can be a
user, business unit uh or organization.
Uh and then this ownership can be check
can be used uh will be used uh to check
permissions.
Um so what does it mean? If you set up
your entity
and you say that it has user owner
whenever I let's stick to the contact
whenever I um logged in as some user
whenever I create a contact additionally
we will save the information about my
user ID so we will have the information
exactly which user created this contact
and then if you decide that owner is not
user but only business unit Then uh we
will save only the business unit ID that
I belong to. So you will lose
information who exactly created this
contact. You will have only information
from which business unit this person
was. Okay. And same goes for the
organization. So you'll only have
information about the organization that
this user belongs to.
Um
and later we'll be able to uh filter out
the list of for example contacts based
on the ownership. How in a second. Uh
how to define this ownership? Uh we did
it in the entity configuration. So in
this at config s section on our entity
and here
yes this is in the at config section. Uh
and we have the ownership section here
and we can specify owner type user. We
can specify owner type business unit and
organization.
Let me show you the rest.
Owner type user business unit
organization. So basically the keywords
and then
this user needs to have be available as
a field on our entity. Right? So this is
entity contact and this contact entity
will have owner field. Okay. And in the
database uh the column will be user
owner owner ID. So you need to put it
here. uh for the ownership to work, you
always need to also add uh organization.
Uh so you need to have organization in
order for the ownership to work. And
then you can save additional data like
user or business unit. Um
if you use organization then you just
don't need those two fields. This will
be enough.
Um and this is it. Remember after
executing this part you need to execute
the command to update uh entity config
and you also need to create this field
right. So this will not in the
background do the migration for you. You
need to end the migration and create
this uh field.
Okay.
Uh so once we have the ownership or or
not because some entities will have
ownership, some will not.
Um we can go back to this uh security
part. So as you saw on the role uh edit
page, we have two type of ACL. First
part is entity based and this goes to
this part. So per entity we can specify
if I can view, create, edit, delete,
assign and some others.
Uh then second part is action based
so-called capabilities. We call them
capabilities and those are um
like
um yes no values. So if you want to
check something uh uh if you want to
restrict something that is not connected
to an entity but you just want to allow
someone to export grid view for example.
Right? So this is not connected to any
entity or anything. So you just create
that kind of rule and that kind of uh
ACL permission and it's going to be true
false. Okay. So when I edit I can
basically just say that okay I can do it
or I cannot do it. Okay.
Um
uh so what about those entity
permissions? As you saw by default we
have view, create, edit, delete and
assign. Uh and they are all defined in
the YAML file in this YAML file. Those
are actually defined as available for
every entity.
Uh and then
um
let me go to edit page of administrator
once more.
Uh and then based on the ownership
we can have different levels per each
action. So without ownership we can only
say that someone let's do that this on
the view example. We have contact entity
and we have view setting.
So we have contact entity and we have
view setting here. Actually I have more
levels because contact has uh ownership
turned on. Uh for the entity that
doesn't have ownership we'll have only
two levels none and global.
Um
okay none and global so if the entity
doesn't have ownership the only thing
that I can do from here it's say that I
can view all the those entities or I
cannot view none okay so either all or
nothing because we don't have ownership
on this entity we don't know who created
uh each particular entity so we can only
say I can see everything or or I can see
nothing. But if we have owner,
where is my contact?
Then we have actually more levels. For
the enterprise edition, we will have
also organization level here between
division and global because we we will
be able to have multiple organizations.
For single organization, this level
doesn't make sense. That's why it's not
here. But normally it will have also
organization level here. So what this
gives us whenever I have an ownership on
my entity and let's say first example
the ownership is set to user. So when I
log in and create a contact we
additionally save my user ID to this
contact entity. So we have information
which user created it and because of
that we can we have here level user
which will mean that whoever gets this
role has access to see contacts but only
created by himself. So when I now enter
the contact uh list page the contact
index page with the data grid I will not
have all contacts on the data grid but
only those that I created because my
level of visibility is user. Okay.
Uh then you can also uh set here
business unit. Uh so we are saving
information which user created it. So we
also kind of have information up right
in which business unit was uh this
person. So if you create a role for me
and set a business unit level here for
the view, it will uh act as when I go to
the contact list, I will see all the
contacts that I created and all other
users from my business unit. So I will
see a little bit bigger list. Then you
can also switch it to division which
will mean uh all contacts created by me,
all users from my business unit and all
users from child business units and then
uh we also have organization here
normally and global means everything.
Okay. So this is why this ownership is
so important. Whenever you create an
entity and uh set ownership, you need to
think for the future. Um
because if you decide to go not with
user but with business unit then here
you will not have this user level right
because you will keep only information
uh from which business unit was the user
that created it right so if you later
would like with ACL show only contacts
that create were created by particular
user you won't be able to do it right
because your uh ownership level imagine
here it's business unit. So you're not
keeping information which user created
that. That's why it's so important to
think about it at the beginning because
based on this ownership
uh we will save some additional
information about the owner and we will
have different levels in here.
Um okay so for and without ownership
only n and global and with ownership we
have levels levels based on the
ownership. So for the user owner we have
all the levels for the business unit uh
owner we will have everything except the
user and so on and so on.
Um okay
so uh disregarding the fact if we have
ownership or not have ownership because
uh based on this we'll just have
different levels in here. Uh how to make
this entity even to appear here. Okay.
So if you want to turn on uh the ACL for
our entity, you need to do
enable uh permissions for this entity.
Uh you need to uh add security scope
inside entity configuration. So again we
need to go back to our entity and in the
add config section uh we need to specify
security section.
Okay.
You do not need you do not uh need to
have ownership for this. You can just
basically turn ACL
uh on. So security type ACL. We support
only this one. Uh then group name empty
means back office role. If I have here
commerce this then this entity will have
turned on security uh for the storefront
roles. So customer user roles. So empty
always means back office, commerce means
storefront and then this category here
is just for the UI there some additional
parameter that can that is uh used later
to display this particular entity
because as you can see here on this list
we have a lot of entities
seriously a lot of
that's why we have also those tabs. So
for example, if you want to put this
entity here we have all but here we have
some only some. So if you want to put
this entity inside this tab you need to
specify category account management. So
this is basically only only for the UI.
Uh after you add this section uh do not
forget to execute this command to uh to
update entity config and actually in
this particular case you're good to go.
So for the ownership you also need to
create columns with migrations but for
the ACL all you need to do is basically
say that you want to turn on this
functionality for for your entity. Once
you do this your entity will appear on
this long list here. Okay. So
I don't have my usernaming type that we
created here yet. we're going to do it
uh in the practice. We will enable the
ACL for our usernaming type. So
basically add this section, execute this
command and our entity will appear here
on the list and we'll be able to set
uh permissions for view create edit and
so on.
Okay.
Um
so how how those permissions will
actually edit. As you can see here, we
have view, create, edit, delete. But
sometimes we can have something else.
And let's say
for the price list, we have additional
recalculate action here. And how to
create this action? In case you need
something else, uh you need to do it
inside the permissions yam file. This is
inside resources config or so. So it
will be autoloaded for you by our
security bundle and
this is from price list
pricing bundle. Okay. So here inside
this file we have oral permissions name
space and then you specify each action.
So we specify calculate action. This is
the name of action and also identifier
and it needs to be displayed in the back
office. So we need a label.
It's recalculate which is
true. It's like recalculate. Then what
we can specify is uh group names. So
again uh empty will go to back office
role. Commerce will go to store uh
storefront role. uh if we want to apply
this action to all entities and here you
have false that's why this action it's
not available on all entities but only
on some particular actually only one on
the price list
um entity and that's why we have this
recalculate here. So if you need any
like any more actions then you can
create permissions y file and add some
action specify if it should be for all
the entities or only for some specific
entities. Okay.
Uh
just as a reminder what kind of access
levels we have um if we have ownership
and uh the most important part how to
actually use this. Okay. So we have a
role we can set for example that I can
uh see or cannot see contact price list
or whatever. How to actually now use it?
Uh so uh we need to create permission
rules. For example, rule will tell me if
I have access to view contact entities
and how to create those rules. You can
do it inside controller and inside uh
yan file. If you do it inside yan file
then you will just create a definition
and later you will need to use those
defined rules in the controller. you can
actually create and already use
and we do it via the annotation.
Okay. Okay. And we have this annotation
called ACL
that is from
our security bundle.
Okay. And um inside here what we are
doing we are using this annotation means
that we are creating this rule and we'll
also already using it on top of our
controller action. So right now my view
action is protected with this rule. Uh
each rule needs to have an identifier
because you can later use this rule in
many other places by its identifier.
Then you need to specify the type. So it
can be either entity or action. So you
remember that we have this entity uh
permissions and we have action
permissions. Okay. So now we're
specifying that it's entity permission
and we need to specify what entity and
which action. Uh so basically here we
are checking if logged in user has a
view access to user entity and we named
this rule or user user view. You will
see in our vendor files that we also
name those rules so that this ID can
tell me exactly what's going on because
later on you will use this only by
identifier. So it's good to put here a
good name because it will be helpful in
the future. Uh so you will see that we
always have like oruro user it's my
bundle then user entity and uh view
action for the
create we will have oral user user
creates. So just by the name of the rule
I can assure you that and this is
checking if I have create uh permission
for the user entity. Okay. So it's also
good thing to for those identifiers to
be to mean something for you.
Uh then if you'd like to use some
existing rule here in your controller
for this we have second annotation. So
normally we protect with a view action
with a view permission we protect two
actions uh view page which is kind of
obvious but also index page right
because on index page we have a list of
our entities so if I don't have access
to view this entity I should not be able
to to see the list of it that's why we
also protect um index action with this u
ACL
and to do this we have
uh just separate annotation. It's called
ACL ancestor and this just means use
existing rule and here you need to pass
this rule ID. So this is just using this
rule and protecting our action with this
rule with the ACL you are both creating
and using. Okay, so that's the only
difference.
Uh then how to do the same from the
ACL's uh you need to create ACL in
resources config oro this file it's
inside or subd directory so it will be
autoloaded for you
uh and here in the ACL name space you
specify those
rules and this is only a definition now
if you want to use it you need to take
the ID because this is the ID in this
format and for example go go to your
controller, use uh ACL ancestor and put
this rule ID here. Okay, so here we are
only creating rules not using them
anywhere yet.
Um type entity class permission group
name. So this is be office commerce mean
storefront. So exactly the same that uh
we have here. One additional uh very
nice element here are those bindings. So
imagine the situation that we have a
controller in vendors. So you cannot go
to this controller file and edit it and
protect uh this controller action with
uh or this action with some additional
ACL. So what to do if you want to create
a new action new rule but protect with
this rule some action from the
controller in vendors.
Uh so this is why we have this binding
section for because here in those
bindings you can uh specify a list of co
controllers and actions that you want to
protect with this rule. Okay. So you
cannot edit uh controller from vendors
but you can specify it here and this way
uh those actions will be additionally
protected with this particular rule. And
how to add this bindings? I think we
have example for this.
[Music]
Okay. So all you need to do is pass the
class. This is the path to my controller
and which action you want to protect
with this particular rule. Okay. So this
create action on this controller will be
additionally protected also with this
rule.
Okay. And how to check those
permissions? So if you use this in the
controller,
um this is already checking, right? So
either you add this inside controller,
you can use ACL or ACL ancestor
annotation and this will protect this
action with it. But what to do if you
want to kind of manually check the
permissions? So in the PHP code for this
we have authorization uh checker
service. Uh so we can uh get it and then
this service has is granted method to
which you pass the action and entity and
it will return uh the you uh boolean
value if logged in user has view
permission to some particular entity.
Okay. Okay. And is granted it's
returning true or false. And then uh you
can also use uh ACL rules in YAML files.
You already saw that uh in multiple
places. For example, in data grids you
can specify ACL resource and put here
this rule ID. Rule ID which means this
rule ID.
This is rule ID. Okay.
uh and you can with this protect for
example the whole data grid so let's say
that I won't see data grid if I don't
have access to something or you can also
protect single actions so uh you can
display data grid but for example hide
uh create button or something like that
or some additional button uh sending
emails whatever so in y files we do it
with ACL resource
Um sorry. Then uh in the tweak template
we created a tweak extension with this
method is granted for you to which you
just pass permission name and entity and
it will return you true false based on
the fact if logged in user has few
access to some particular entity. Okay.
So this is how you do it from uh tweak,
yaml or php code.
Uh okay. So let's now uh do some
example.
So let's imagine that we have a call
center and this call center will create
uh contacts.
We have operators that will call to some
people and create contacts. Okay. Then
uh operator A and uh A1 and A2 they have
their manager because this is department
A. Then uh operator B1 B2 they have
their manager. Uh C1 C2 they have their
manager. Then managers have their own
manager of call center. Uh then imagine
that the slide is not big enough. Um
but imagine that we have another call
center here
and another manager of organization.
Also we could have uh multiple
organizations here. You need to imagine
that because the slide is really very
not wide enough for me to show you this
but I think you get the idea right. We
have this tree with levels and we can
have multiple levels uh everywhere.
Uh and what we want to actually do we uh
need to create this contact entity and
uh we need to create it this way that
later we will be able to show operator A
only contacts that he created. Then
manager of department should see all the
contacts created by operator A1 and A2.
Manager of call center should be able to
see contacts from all uh departments.
Manager of organization from the whole
organization and administrator basically
everything disregarding the
organizations.
Uh so now when you will be creating this
entity the question is uh what kind of
ownership we need to give this entity so
later you'll be able to filter the list
by those by all those levels. Okay. So
question is
we need to create the ownership on our
entity the way that operators will be
able to see only contacts assigned
created uh by them
and basically in this particular case uh
the answer is um
user right so we need to create an
ownership on our entity and set
ownership to user because we need to
save information which user created this
entity. So later on we will be able to
show operators only their contacts
and for our operator we will create a
role operator role and on this operator
role we will set a view permission to
user level for our uh contact entity.
Then my manager of department should see
contacts assigned to all the operators
in the department. Okay. So to all this.
So this manager of department cannot
have operator role because that's not
enough. Uh we need to create separate
role for this guy for those guys
actually. And this role needs to have
different access level on the contact
entity. And this access level
is business unit.
So he'll be manager of department will
be able to see all the contact of his
operators.
Uh then manager of consultter needs to
see all the contacts from those
departments.
So for him we also need to create
separate role and for this third role we
will set different level for the contact
view action and for
manager of call center this is division.
Division means business unit and child
business units.
Uh going further organiz manager of
organization uh must see all contacts in
the organization. So again here we will
need to create separate role and uh set
yet different level for the view action
on our contact entity and this will be
organization level and finally our
administrator will have global level. So
uh administrator will be able to see
basically everything
and at the end you will end up with this
structure in Aro. So this will be some
organization.
Those
are all business units but this is the
parent one
and it has child business units inside.
Okay. So when you create this structure
and uh then you can create different set
of roles. So you'll have separate roles
for operator, manager of department,
manager of call center and so on. And
you'll be able to set appropriate levels
on all those roles. So those users will
see different set of contacts on the
contact list.
So that's the whole idea.
Uh it's uh pretty configurable and you
can do a lot of things from here from
the ACL.
Uh so whenever you want to show hide
something check if you can do it with
ACL because maybe you can just create
separate roles set different set of
permissions and you'll be good to go. Uh
so remember about this this
configuration
and yep that's it.
Uh and what about the second part of uh
our permissions? Uh so action
permissions this is not not connected to
any entity or anything. This is
basically just on off value if you want
to allow user with particular role to do
something or uh restrict from doing
something. So we don't have any access
levels here. This is not connected to
ownership because this is not connected
to any entity.
We don't have different set of
permissions anything. That's basically
binary value on off
and it's here. Okay. So on edit page we
have checks. This is represented as a
checkbox. And on the
uh view page this is basically
let's say this one.
If it's turned on then it's black. If
it's off then it's gray.
And on edit we have checkbooks.
Okay.
Uh how to define uh action permissions
exactly the same way
uh either in the controller in
annotation or in the ACL YAML file. The
difference is that uh type is action and
we don't have this uh class or
permission because this is not connected
to any class uh or any permission. So we
have type you need to give it some label
because with this label we display it
here this label
uh and then group name this means back
office commerce means storefront and the
same category uh
so you want to put it in some
appropriate place in the UI.
Okay.
uh and second part is inside ACL yaml
file. So here this is the rule ID and we
will use this ID to use this rule uh
label
you can pass description you don't need
to type needs to be action and again
this goes to the back office commerce to
storefront category it's only for uh
displaying it in the UI
uh and how to use it how to check uh
exactly the same Okay. So uh in PHP with
authorization checker the only
difference that to is granted method you
need to pass the only the identifier of
your rule. Okay. So no entity no action
anything like this because it's not
relevant in this uh
particular case. So just basically you
always go with the rule identifier ICL
resource rule identifier and in tweak
template is granted method with rule
identifier.
Uh and regarding storefront ownership um
this is exactly the same. The idea is
exactly the same. We just have separate
entities. So separate config options for
storefront. We have customer users as
users and customer user roles as roles.
Inside they look the same. So we have
list of entities and we have list of
actions but we have different levels
based on different users right and
different owner. So for for storefront
we have customers and child customers
then customer user.
Uh that's why we're going to have only
three levels. Okay. So user,
my records, customer
record, my records and all customer
users from my customer and division
means a customer and child customers.
Um and in the entity configuration we
have separate options for this. So again
in the ownership part but uh for back
office owner type this was this
configuration and here we have frontend
owner type with front end user or
customer.
So basically just different names of
options and again you need to specify
field name uh in the entity and column
name in the database.
Okay.
Uh and um if you want to use uh those uh
you created in ACL file or in controller
the same way as for back office just
group name is not empty but is commerce.
Okay. Uh and here the same way we have
set of roles. uh those roles have some
some permissions set and then we assign
those roles to our customer users.
Okay. Uh here is one additional thing
because this goes to storefront. So we
um allow not logged in users to enter
the storefront. For back office this is
not true. You need to be always logged
in. But for storefront guests can
access. So there is this additional role
called nonauthenticated visitors. And
this is the role that all your guest
users will have. So application will
always assume that there if the guests
enter your site uh it will be treated as
uh with this role. So if you want to
give guests some access or restrict deny
access, you can do it with ACL for this
particular role. As you can see by
default they cannot do much dear guests.
So
that's actually how this should be.
Okay.
And uh some more elements. We'll talk
about workflows next week. But basically
workflow uh you can create some workflow
uh for entity and uh this workflow will
have transitions right. So we'll be able
to go from one step to the other and we
also have a workflow permissions
and I can show you here better. So you
can either set permission for the
workflow if I'm able to see it use it
or not or you can only say that I cannot
perform transitions. So it will go to
the workflow and to the transitions that
leads us from step to step.
And also we have field-based ACL. We are
not using it out of the box anywhere but
it's available and in case you need it,
it's good to know that it's there. So
instead of specifying uh
um let me go
back to back office role.
Uh okay
instead of let's take opportunity
instead of specifying uh if I have view
access to this whole entity I can do it
per field and to do this uh you need to
enable it it configur inside
configuration section of your entity. So
from the code you go to entity edit at
config section. Uh and you can also edit
it from here.
Let's
addit opportunity entity. And here you
have the switch for field level ACL. If
I turn it on
and save
and refresh this page,
you will see now this plus here and I
can expand it and I can set uh
permissions per each field. So for the
opportunities this can be situation when
you have a some user and you want to
show him the list of opportunities but
you don't want to see the approximate
budget or anything because all money
related uh fields should be hidden. So
for example, you can use it for this. Uh
out of the box in Ouro, we don't have
any we're not using it on any entity,
but it's there in case you will need it
in your customizations.
Okay,
links uh for everything that we talked
about
and best practices. You'll see that um
in our controllers we protect um we try
to protect every action. So almost all
the actions are protected with some ACL.
And if you just want to have some
additional check uh you can use those
actions capabilities uh for this. So do
not forget about this ACL because it
will give you a lot of um
it gives you a lot of configuration and
you can put uh custom actions and just
with roles and ACL's do something do
some changes on your application.
Okay.
Do you have any questions?
So, let's do 20 minutes
break. We'll meet back uh 15 minutes
past 3 my time and we're going to go go
back to the topic number six about crap
and do the practice from there. Then
we'll switch to practice for number
seven. So uh for those of you who don't
want to take part in practice,
uh thank you and see you on Monday. Uh
for those of you who want to take part
in the practice, see you in 20 minutes.
Okay guys, please let me know if you are
here.
[Music]
Okay. So we have practice till the end
of the session. First part will be topic
number six and I actually explained you
this yesterday. Those are the only three
points that I would like you to do and
then you have also some optional if you
want. If you'll have time for optional
just start with the last one uh with
search index
for this we should have like two hours.
So
we'll see how it goes. Maybe we'll start
topic number seven practice today. Maybe
not. Uh so we'll just see. Okay, just
start doing it. And as always, I'm here.
I will be just muted and I'll stop
sharing my screen. So please open slides
uh from the email because you will be
able to click hints. Uh and yeah, I'm
here. I'm just muted. Please ask me
anything in case you have any questions
to that.
Hello. I
Yes.
Yeah. Uh I have a question about delete
action.
Um in in the example from the slides, um
it's quite difficult to convert it into
into
config into annotation config from
Okay.
[Music]
Okay. So, for delet
I'm not sure if this is
a different I'm using the presentation
from I mean the the slides
from theory.
Okay. So,
lights from theory they have the whole
idea why you don't need to actually
create an action in the data grid etc.
The only thing you need to do is specify
this route name in the config section of
your entity. Just remember that this
needs to lead to the index page of the
our usernaming type entity.
Okay. Okay. Okay.
And then execute this action to update
entity config.
Yeah. By the way, uh what is best
practice reviews?
annotation or to use attributes. Uh
actually right now we support only
annotations
and attributes will be available from
Ouro version 6 and we are actually going
to switch to attributes.
Okay.
But right now they they are not still
available. They are not yet available.
Um
so yeah I see the the example in the CR
it leads to the
um task entity with the attribute
probably because the link is master
right
yeah that's correct okay
if I check it six then you'll have the
attributes so still now this annotations
from version six you can use attributes
Yes,
have some issue there. I cannot find
there. So, it's saying that the router
is not defined. However, previously it
was like working.
Uh I have added two actions
for the update and the view lin
and uh
add it to
template.
You were not supposed to create the
updates uh to be honest. And do you have
updates? Uh
no, I just copied it. So I just have
this update there.
Uh and uh yeah,
but do you have this uh update route in
your controller? Because if not, it's
trying it will try to find it and it
will just throw you errors because it
does not exist
this one. So what I'm getting I'm
getting this one. However, just regular
index as far
But I was playing.
Okay. So, it's not finding your index
action. Can you show me your uh
index controller? Yeah. And index
controller.
Okay. So, you have issue with namings.
Both your view action name and your
index action name is the same. Uh, so
it's basically trying to do something
but doesn't know what's going on because
you duplicated
identifiers.
This name works as identifier and you
need to remember to make it unique
globally.
Mhm. That's why we have those naming
convention in naming those routes just
to protect from not having duplicates
there. It seems like it helped because
your
application is building something.
Okay. Can you switch back to your grid?
By the way, if you'd like to check what
exact error you're having because right
now probably you have some error on data
grid but you will not see it in the
storefront. You'll see it only in logs.
And there is one command that I'm using
always to
just check my logs for new errors and
I'll paste it here. I just use tail for
this and grab errors by criticals.
Um,
okay.
[Music]
But probably the error is because you
left the in your data grid definition,
you left uh update link which has a
route that doesn't exist. So I'm
assuming that that's the cause.
Sorry, what was this
in the data grid definition?
Mhm. uh scroll up to par parameters uh
properties you have update link which
has this route that doesn't exist. So
currently currently it's disabled but
yeah I can disable it as well.
Uh yeah but the property creation is not
disabled and you're using this route in
property creation. You only disabled
action. You didn't disable the property
creation.
H
yeah.
[Music]
Yeah. When the data grid is built uh you
are creating update link based on the
uh route that doesn't exist. So that was
another property label. Yeah, we don't
have a label or username type. We have
only title and format. So, you copied
and didn't change probably
uh in the template. That's in the
template in the view HTML tweak.
Um yeah, we have title
and do not forget about the content
block because you still didn't pass any
content to that template only like he
and something
else.
Mhm. Yeah. So it's still missing the
part uh the block content data which is
important because this template cannot
leave without the uh content data block.
Yes.
So preferably do not do it with the
widget which is in this example
uh but just render a static elements.
Can you switch to slides from the uh
Siri
and there is this um
for the view it was up because view was
higher view was the first action. Next
slide. Oh this one stop.
No create view. We are on the view page.
So please open read slides number four.
Okay. And here you can use the render
grid example.
There is a easier part. Can you open
render grid example?
Okay. And actually you need the part
that is not highlighted in yellow. You
need everything from this block except
this yellow part because you don't need
that grid yet. So just to pass some
values there.
You edited a core file.
Yeah, I got it. Yeah, I got it. I am
saying sorry.
Where is it? Uh, yeah. Right.
I need
and you just need to create render
properties. Yeah, basically this just
change the parts, right? Because uh
we're rendering
we have different label different values
render property method. It's rendering
this property. Uh first parameter is a
label and second parameter is value. So
for label you probably want to use your
translations if you have them.
[Music]
But you don't have translation for Oh,
you have for title field in line six.
Uh if you right click on the labor word
in line six, not this label. This uh you
want to put the
um translation for the title field.
Okay. So what was label?
uh title label. You don't have
translation for the title. You have
translation for title label.
And same for format.
[Music]
You have four format.
and the values here because you're
passing entity code and description and
we don't have entity code and
description
this one. Mhm. Yep.
And you need to change the ID in line 35
because the identifier of the page needs
to be also unique
um globally just ID that you have in
line 35.
This will be the ID used uh in the
listener. So it needs to be unique.
The customer tax code is just variable
name. So just for it to look better, you
can change it, but it will still
work.
Click on something.
Yeah, but can you go back?
Sure.
here inside data blocks you're pushing
some HTML and this is the variable that
is in line 22
right
so you're basically rendering some HTML
into this variable and then pass this
variable as a uh data
it should it should work
Uh there is no ID
method in
[Music]
No. It's just saying something about uh
template. Do you have anywhere the ID
here?
Blog content data and block
training usernaming type.
Just looking for some typo.
Can you scroll down?
No, that's about the set ID, but it's
correct.
Can you show me back the error?
And what is in line?
Oh, this is a parent template line.
So, probably it's looking for the idea
method. Probably it's not a public kind
of
Okay, you don't have getter. You don't
have get ID. For the ID you need to have
getter
only getter setter not because this is
our auto incremented value but getter
you need to have getter.
I thought it was there. Sorry.
[Music]
failed. Get property access.
Okay. Can you show me your entity once
more?
Use extend entity trait. Uh why it's
highlighted? You have highlighted line
number one.
I had something with my
CSS checker says some kind of
Okay. And can you expand the use
section?
Okay.
Okay. Can you scroll down?
Disregarding the error you're getting in
your two string, you have this code.
Basically, we don't need to string
method. We're not going to use it
anywhere
[Music]
property access. But which one? I'm
going to see what's inside the base
template on line 59.
Okay.
59. Okay. Okay.
This one.
It's two string actually.
Okay. Can you remove this two string
method because it's there it's trying to
use two string and do something
uh instead of using our naming provider.
Maybe that's
the case.
It's actually working with this. We're
just trying to code this. Very good.
Mhm.
Uh and one additional element. Can you
switch back to your entity
and show me getters?
Any getter
get format? Okay, you have string and uh
question mark. Okay, that's okay because
sometimes uh I see that people create
entities and forgetters the return value
it's hinted to string but when Symfony
is actually building forms those fields
are sometimes null. So they have a lot
of errors. I just want to double check
that you have this question mark. I'm
not sure about this one, but if we find
set format and probably not static, but
just return this
self usernaming type.
Yeah,
this is type hinting. So you can leave
it empty or you can just say self or
usernaming type or whatever. So
okay, thank you. I think I'll move to
the next step.
Mhm. Sure.
Guys, if you need to go on a break,
please do. It's been some time already,
so you can get up. Uh, yeah.
Okay, guys. Can you tell me your status
on the first practice? I mean, the one
with the view page.
I uh got all the required stuff working.
The only thing and then I started
working on the search uh part which is
working. The only thing I'm running into
is that like the when I do my search the
autocomplete is including the format for
some reason. I'm not, it's not in my
search, but like the autocomplete result
shows that
I was trying something just now to see
if I could fix it. It's still doing it.
Mhm. Okay. Sure, guys. What about you,
Victor Finer?
Hi. uh so for me I have created this
delete action and also have issues with
the searchers I have created file but
it's not working and uh trying to
get the other optional to like add
additional grid for the users which is
uh assign it for this format however
didn't find the example so far so
stuck on this.
Mhm. So the example uh to do this uh
will be
I will share screen
on the theory slides.
[Music]
Okay.
Six. Number six.
Uh so here where you have this render
grid example
this is actually this part it's
rendering some grid and adding it to
block actually on this page we have two
grids I want to create only one so we
have first grid and second this is the
grid of customer that have the stack
code and here is how you can bind
parameters so you need to pass some
parameter
uh to the to this grid. Then you can
check this grid and
and this grid uses it like this. You
need to bind this parameter in the in
this particular place and then you can
use it in the workflows. Okay. Um,
so it means that I need create my
separate grid with the source and all
the stuff. So I cannot use the existing
user list.
I mean you can but this grid is super
big right this grid that render user
list is actually this one.
It's really big. So probably it would be
good to create a brand new
for this.
Okay.
And also on the slides from here I think
yeah here you have link not to example
but to documentation.
Yeah that I saw. Yeah I saw that.
However it's not. So for the first uh
task that's optional. So the grid to
create the
uh format parameter bendions to to get
the users who use this format. Uh I'm
not sure is okay. So it's like the grid
and then we have the the extension to
render examples of huder name it on the
format.
Mhm. So basically it goes to the fact
that whenever I get this display my
like official here I will have a grid of
users that have this format assigned. So
mine is empty but then when I go to
users and this is official. Okay. So
let's edit one of them
and actually assign the official.
So at least one of the users have this
official set and now it should this one
single user should appear on this list.
Okay. So we have a data grid that has a
work clause right. So we're passing the
identifier of our current entity
usernaming type and then filtering list
of users sorry uh by this uh ID.
Right. But isn't it the first task like
to create uh crit for the customer
assign it to it? So I'm asking about the
other one which is sounds like add
extension to render example of user
name.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's just a tweak extension. So
in case you want to
I I'm not sure what the result supposed
to be. I
I mean at the end if it's I did this for
Okay guys since this is optional part.
Mhm.
So let me actually maybe show you the
solution for optional parts for all of
them. So you can check uh on your site
uh and maybe fill in some gaps
and there we're going to actually switch
to the ACL and if you'll have enough
time you'll be able to to continue with
optional. Okay. Guess it's been like two
hours and I need to
um
go to next topic.
So uh okay, Vladimir, what about you?
Because uh are you ready with
nonoptional parts? Probably yes because
you asked already about delete. So
yeah, so I finished uh this part as
well. I started to work on search but
just started so
okay so this tweak extension optional
part this is actually something that I
uh I don't really need you to do because
this is not connected to oral this is
connected directly to tweak so you can
check do this part later I will just
show you the solution and always you
have the reference uh
to the for the code in the repository.
Uh so you're done with this part. I'm
just going to
[Music]
I I did
I I rendered list of users uh
in on the view page and that's all what
I did.
Mhm.
So you have a view page
and you have row action and delete
action. View action and delete action on
data grid. Right?
Yeah. So this was basically what you
were supposed to do. All the other parts
are optional. Uh actually this optional
element is interesting and the last
optional element is interesting and this
I'm going to focus on and if you want to
have some time to finish this part on
your side okay I can give it to you
because this is actually interesting. Uh
but regarding this tweak extension, I'm
not eager actually to do it because
that's totally like something to
if you finish the practice very very
quickly than for you not to be bored
with something to have something to do
because this is not like this is just a
tweak extension. So
I will start from explaining this in
case you have on your site it almost
ready maybe me showing you solution will
just tell you give you some hints how to
finish it on your site.
Okay.
So,
okay, I will just close all tabs.
Okay, so uh we are supposed to render
and this is what I just shown you on
this view page. You you have this one.
This is actually done with this tweak
extension. So I will show you also how
uh this grid but this grid is supposed
to be grid of users but not all of them
only those who have this usernaming type
assigned. So my user has actually this
usernaming type assigned.
That's why this user is visible on this
data grid. So for this we actually
decided to create uh in this training uh
repository to create a separate uh grid
for those users uh because the original
grid of users is really big and
complicated and we don't need all this
information in here. We basically just
need username, first name, last name.
That's uh that's enough.
So
and the whole idea here is just to show
you how to bind parameters. So for this
this data grid to display it, we need to
pass the identifier of our user naming
type and then create a work condition in
our data grid and filter list of users
by only those who have naming type this
particular one official number one.
Okay. So the data greetings itself it's
short
just some our name
do not bother about this this is the ACL
task and um similar to what we had here
we are fetching data usernaming types
and we're doing the same here we're
fetching username first name last name
from user table and then displaying
those three columns uh then we need to
pass to this data grid uh the ID of our
naming type and put it in the work
clause. So we're binding some parameter
under this parameter we're going in the
template we're going to pass the ID of
our usernaming type
and now my um naming type was added
under this name. This goes directly to
my
migration that I have here and to the
association name
and uh this is the way you can fetch the
ID right because this is uh relation.
So in this case you can use this way you
can also fetch it differently but
basically the identity will give you the
identity of related entity. Okay. and it
needs to be equal to past id. So in my
case it will I will pass one
and it will be
bound to my data grid as a parameter
under this value and I will I'm adding
work loss and displaying the list of
users but only those who have this
naming type assigned
and the second part was to render this
data grid and pass this particular
parameter to it. So on the view page we
have
first we need to import our data grid
macros because those macro uh they have
uh methods inside to render data grids
in HTML tweak. So we are importing that
and then in the content data block
we are using it and rendering a grid.
This is the name of the grid that I just
created here. same one and we're passing
we are on the view page of our
usernaming type. So under entity we have
our usernaming type. So we are basically
passing the ID to the data grid inside
this parameter naming type ID and this
goes to this. So basically new grid
work close with pass with bound
parameter and passing parameter here.
Uh we're rendering this into variable of
course and then adding second block and
filling it with our rendered data grid.
Okay.
Then
let's switch to the search
part.
Um, so to make usernaming type
searchable. So we want basically to be
able to type here
official and to be able to search for
it.
So what we need to do
uh and we want to index only title
fields. So our configuration will will
be very very short. Uh search results uh
row has to redirect to view page. So
basically we want to have
standard view here. So the name that is
also a link to a view page and uh search
results row has to show format. So down
below here uh for other entities for
example like
um contacts we have here created at
updated at but we want to display here
uh format
something nice happened with to my
search index I will reindex in a second
uh so it should be back again to okay
um okay so for this we need just two
elements. We need to add this
configuration in search yamu and tell
index that we want to index username
type entity but we also want to index
only title field. So for this
we have search file inside resources
config oro so it will be autoloaded.
Then we have search name space fully
qualified class name of our entity.
Uh we added here some alias and the
definition for fields. We want to index
only title field and in the search
engine we also have it want to have it
under the uh title field. Uh then those
uh elements are regarding the second
part. So the template and we need to
create this template
and this type template will render a
link to view page. That's why we need
this section route name. This is the
route for the view page. And this
directly goes to controller
view action route. This one, this my
view action. This is the name of my
route. So this goes here. And we need to
pass ID. And then we need to create a
search template. And you have also
example here.
and the search template. Uh yes, uh you
need to pass the path, right? So this
will lead us to our resources views in
the training usernaming. So let's go to
resources views. We decided to put it
inside usernaming search. You can put it
anywhere you like. And this is our
result row HTML tweak. Uh and this is
basically copied from the uh from the
example that you have on the slides.
That's why we have also this hints here.
And we have two elements entity and
indexer item here. You need to extend
our base template.
And the important parts from this yeah
basically record URL it's all also
always taken from the indexed item and
is generated based on this part. Right.
So we need to pass this this part. We
don't have any image on our entity. So
that's it. Uh title is entity title.
Entity type. This is what's going to be
displayed here on the right.
So for us this will be usernaming type.
That's why we passed here
uh entity name. But basically you can
also go with translation. So this is for
in my opinion over complicated. I'd even
change it to just translation.
Uh like this we have plural entity
label. Okay.
And uh in the entity info. So down here
we are supposed to display format not
created at or updated at but only
format. So we're going to have only one
element here. and title
is this left part. So title is uh
basically label for format and value is
our format.
After you'll have those two elements,
you need to still execute the command to
run uh search index.
Okay. Oral search index.
I'm not going to push it through message
Q because my application is super small.
Okay.
And right now according to this
configuration
I should have in my index index my
entity but only title field. Okay. So
right now when I search
for
official
I have result here. I should also
have autocomplete
for some reason I h not here. Sorry.
Okay. Here
I have autocomplete that I have some
username type with this particular
title.
And here on this results list I have
this record rendered. We have a link to
the view page and we have the format
down there.
Is it more clear for you now?
Yes. Yes. Um I have a question. Uh can
we can we create um open search um
which will include only one entity? You
see it's a pension all but
I'd like to have a search
um by users only.
So in index you basically have
everything. So you will need to create
some custom
uh like input form type that will search
in only in the
only in the users. So you can
use the search handler the one that we
have for example here
but that would be basically custom input
then that is doing custom uh search
queries to the index because by default
we have everything there.
Okay. So just to clarify uh that uh
search YAML file um it's part of this
I'd say bundle search uh global search
only and that's all.
Mhm.
Can be extended
custom.
So, if you So, if you click the search
icon in the header and you just type
official,
does it I just want to see if it's doing
the same thing for you that it's doing
for me.
Oh, yours is even worse than mine. Mine
mine shows like the title. It'll show
official and then next to it, it shows
the format. So, I was looking in how to
like override the autocomplete which I
think we talked about. yesterday and I
may have gotten it. You need to make
like it looks like you need to do some
sort of select type class thing. I was
looking at the way the contact
that's that's particular type. It's
actually custom one. uh because as you
can see we have also here some drop
please that is prefiltering it and in
case for example you want to search only
by users but you you don't want to
restrict the search to see only users so
you can kind of do it here just to you
know select that okay from users only
but I do still have option to search by
other elements so this is partially
maybe what you wanted Vladimir but
basically I still can search by
everything but I can filter this out. So
this is kind of custom
and uh I will need to find
implementation of this particular part
to tell you from where it's actually
fetching
uh
values.
Yeah, it seems I don't know what the
default behavior is. It just seems to
stuff like it's taking the title and the
format slapping them together via
concatenation and that's what like the
autocomplete shows all of that and then
it shows usernaming type at the bottom.
Yours is not showing a title at all
which is strange.
This is showing me uh the type of this
entity. Yeah, but I also get a title
above that
when I and I just did the B same thing
you did.
So I don't I don't know why I'm getting
different behavior then. Is it not
supposed to show me like a preview of
the matching records? Like if you search
for John or something like a name like
how do I get it to do this?
Like it's showing me individual users
and contacts.
Is that like the autocomplete stuff or
is it a separate configuration
that behind this there is for sure a
template that is displaying this but I
need to check uh basically what this
template is displaying and from where
it's taking the data. I thought for some
moment that maybe if there is one result
result it's
uh showing something but that's actually
not true.
Okay.
So there is some template for sure
behind this. I would need to check it.
Yeah. Another thing
I never I never wondered about this
part.
Another thing I noticed is that if you
type official it doesn't show unofficial
as a result which is weird. So, it's not
doing like a full text search. It's
doing some sort of like front search or
something.
Uh, it's it's not uh added to all text.
Okay.
By default.
So, it will not uh search for parts of
it.
Okay. So, you have to
it will only search from the beginning.
Right. So, um
Okay. So, I'd have to do something to
get it to be full text.
Mhm. For the full text, I will need to
find this is called all text.
Yeah, there was like a field or what was
it?
I tried adding that and it yelled at me.
It was like target full text and it told
me it didn't know what that is.
So for the storefront uh search
we do have all text and we have a lot of
options for the storefront. For back
office
that's not the common case to do
anything custom to the search engine to
be honest.
Okay.
Uh so there because normally for the
I guess all I was trying to do was get
to the point where my search results
looked like searching for like users.
Like when I search for a user and show
me just my second look. I'm curious.
Yeah. One second. I'll need to join from
my I've got a two computers set up. So
yeah, sure.
[Music]
Okay.
So, um, so if I go here,
so I type official
and it shows me this.
Oh,
that's nice.
Yeah. And it also doesn't show like
unofficial. So, kind of two separate
things that I'm trying to figure out is
how do I get that to look better? And
two, how would I get unofficial to show
up in addition to official? Otherwise,
the search isn't very useful. all text
for back office. I can show you how to
uh for the storefront
uh how to define that some particular
value should go go to the old text and
you'll be able to search by it.
Okay,
I'm not sure if it's uh I would need to
check documentation if we even support
all text somehow and how to configure
it.
Doesn't actually work for that
to be honest. I never did that. So I'd
need to check documentation.
It is interesting for like the account
one it does match but that might just be
because we're indexing some value with
this word but you can tell like it
doesn't
probably indexing a lot of values and
somewhere there there is a job.
Yeah.
Um
that exact word. Yeah.
Show me again the
uh official
first name last name suffix.
So that's my format. It comes from your
uh listener the decorator for the name.
This that's those strings are my format.
So I I use this is my format spec. So
like that's my format value.
Okay.
But it's it's like taking the title and
the format and creating the
um you know in the
it did this to by oh let me go to actual
search. Sorry.
So we search for that. It does the same
thing here.
Title format above this
and I don't
I can bring over my code real quick. So
like this selected data.name
ends up being title and format
concatenated together for some reason.
Like nowhere did I tell it to index
format. It just sort of decided it was
going to.
Can you switch back to this title?
So it's selected data name.
Okay. But we don't have a name on our
entity.
Okay.
So it's trying to build
this.
So it's probably
uh Okay. It's trying to build a name. So
it's actually using this entity name
provider. You remember from the first
practice the one that we decorated
the entity name provider
and this entity if you use a name and
not display a value like we have title
and format. So if you just put their
title it will be displaying you only
title. You displayed a name. So you kind
of executed our entity name provider and
our entity name provider um
expects data
will uh return you
uh
will return you by default
and that may just be a matter of how I
implemented mine. So I did it a little
differently. Can you show me yes your
provider but uh you changed it only for
the user entity. So for the usernaming
type it's actually calling the original
provider and
uh original name provider also has some
rules inside how to display name. If you
can enter it so we can check it.
Go there.
Oh sorry that goes to the wrong place.
Getting name.
One second. I have to find it because
it's not control clicking doesn't work.
It just thinks it's
uh the fastest way will be to go to the
definition of your decorator in surfaces
yl and h click on the decorated
decorates something the lower this one
this one
and it's getting name from
yes
one uh displaying you title concatenated
with format. Mhm.
Okay. So it's it's because like if I
wanted to have a different name, I would
need to provide a name provider override
or configure the name provider in some
way.
Yes.
Okay.
So by default based on some rules, this
entity name provider is returning you
the name. So kind of string
representation of your entity. And
because you used in your template name
and dot format or title, it actually
executed this guy and he
returned you concatenated title plus
interesting.
So that was so that's very or that's
interesting. So then that name is sort
of the dynamic field because my entity
is
um
Yeah. Okay. So it's kind of doing some
magic.
Okay. And actually which magic you can
check and debug or just make or check
the code of this name provider on what
grounds it's actually default displaying
default name right if you don't have
anything custom.
Mhm. Yeah. And I'm guessing the
where was I? I'm guessing that ends up
getting used here as well. So okay. So
that's interesting. So I can look at
that later and play with that.
Thank you. But actually it's really nice
that you did this because this uh nicely
connects to the data uh to the entity
name provider that we uh had in first
practice.
Yeah. So it's the same kind of idea. So
I could do an override that way. Is
there any like configuration based
method to kind of manage that or is it
do you have to kind of override the you
always have to override a in a provider?
So if you want some custom thing to be
displayed, you need to create decorate
the entity name provider like we did. So
here we did it for the user and you can
create another
uh like for instance of user naming type
and do something else. Um also you can
check the default by default what is
going on inside there because I think
that um it's also checking some
interfaces if we have first name last
name something. So it has some rules
inside.
Mhm.
Uh what to display where. So but yeah,
basically if you want something custom,
you need to customize the code. The best
way is to decorate our naming provider
and that's it.
Well, this is interesting. So the
contact bundle has a name provider and
it just returns false when it asks for
the name. I'm assuming then it'll fall
back to the actual
No, it's negative. So it's not if it's
not instance of contacts then false.
Okay. Oh, I see. Okay.
Yeah. The other way around there is the
exclamation mark at the beginning.
Yeah. It's hard to see. I'm on I usually
have it on my other screens a little bit
brighter. So
yeah.
Okay. Uh I think I'm good for now. I can
mess around with that more later
possibly. I just was trying to figure
out like where's it getting this name
from and how's that all connected. But
that makes sense.
Yeah. At first I didn't notice that you
use name and I also was wondering what's
going on there but showed me your
template and it became more clear.
Yeah, the template was easy. I could
override this and that was fine. But
then I was like well wait I can't
I can't fix this. So I think you know if
we're trying to make both the same
having the name provider would be the
better option and then just have this
show name that way they stay in sync. Um
but otherwise this is all correct here.
Mhm.
Okay. So, I'm going to share my screen
back and show you the tweak extension.
Entire screen.
Okay.
Um
yeah. So that was the interesting part
and actually something connected with
our functionalities. Uh so yeah now
basically the last element it's uh tweak
extension. Uh so nothing connected to
um Oro. Uh but so tweak extension allows
you to then later in HTML tweak files
like here on the view. Uh this is the
tweak filter.
Um
actually I have only filter here.
function will be just you know the
method name and bracket bracket and we
will part pass this value inside
brackets and not like before the pipe.
So that's the only difference. So if
you'd like to have here
um some additional filter that doesn't
exist here and this is actually uh what
this task tells us to do to create some
custom function or filter uh that will
will be able later to use in HTML tweak
files
and uh this will render example of
username based on format. Okay. So if I
will be on the
Oh my god. Maybe I will close few tabs.
Um
if I am on the view page here, I want to
based on the format and my format is
this. I want to uh display some dummy
example value based on this format. So
here we have some dummy example based on
this format for the unofficial because
it's first last we're going to have this
as an example and this is basically done
uh with a tweak in our case we created a
filter.
So how to create this tweak extension?
We need to create a PHP sorry guys PHP
class
and that will extend tweak abstract
extension
and uh I think that on the slide we have
a link to yes to the documentation from
the symfony because that's not oral part
how to create this extensions uh how to
register filter how to register function
and how to implement all this uh so in
case you need for future reference or
just want to double check in the
documentation. Uh this is how you
basically create a class register filter
uh put implement what's this filter is
supposed to do and then call this filter
here and this is exactly what we're
going to do. uh we are
going to create this extension then
register a filter called full name
example by this name we'll be a able
later to use this filter in our tweak
templates okay whenever you execute this
filter in tweak template it will do
something and this something you need to
specify in the PHP code here uh so this
is like the binding always uh works
First you pass the name and this is the
name of the method that will be actually
executed and here is its implementation.
So what we are doing we are creating
some dummy user because this is supposed
to be an example. So we're just creating
some dummy user and filling it with some
dummy data and then based on those this
user we are and based on the format
uh we are returning example in uh second
uh practice or in one of those
um we created just a separate service
that has this one method where you pass
a user pass format and it's actually
just using strr to replace occurrences
of those elements with the real values.
Right? So we're basically just reusing
this method
and that's why my tweak extension also
has constructor and first and only
element of our constructor is actually
the service. So we're injecting
this guy to be able to use this uh
method
and we are using this method. First
parameter is our user dummy one with
dummy data and second parameter
uh is the format and this is the
variable that we will use this filter
on. Okay. So now in my view template
here we have a title and format and I'm
actually going to uh display the third
line uh which is going to be the name
example. So as you can see we are using
this filter on top of the format. So
this format variable then pipe and
filter name. This filter name gets the
format.
It goes to our extension. it executes
this method and the format
from here. Okay. And it basically return
value based on our format. And that's
that's basically all right. So we
created this filter and uh the example
from the view page.
Uh so on the user naming type view page.
This is what I'm actually showing you
right now. So this is this name example
that is displayed based on our format
and this is on the view page right. So
on top of format we are executing this
filter to display it. uh for the
format column in the user naming type
data grid. So we have usern naming type
data grid format column you we have
already this created this as a custom
tweak template and we're displaying this
part and now below this part I will also
display the example.
So I'm going to edit my data grid column
HTML tweak and this is what we had
previously. And now additionally I'm
just basically displaying example value.
This is my format because we are in the
format cell and we are applying this
filter on top of it.
So we get this as a result.
And the third place was to display it at
user view page.
Ah okay. So we had
this was our first practice and this was
actually optional part
to add this part here with the listener.
We created a listener to this page and
put here rendered here some template. So
let's go to my listener.
Okay. And we are actually rendering uh
this template naming data under user.
Okay. So let's edit this.
And again in this template we had only
this part and now additionally if there
is a naming type selected for my user I
am rendering it. And again here
on the format
I'm using my filter. That's why at the
end we have an example.
Okay. Was it more or less clear?
More or less.
Okay. Um guys, it's 20 minutes till the
end. So I actually I'm going to give you
time to uh maybe fill in if you want the
search part.
And on Monday we'll start uh from the
next practice.
Okay. So yeah, I'll get back to you in
20 minutes to say goodbye.
Can you repeat?
We're just going to do the next exercise
now.
Uh so now I'm actually I will not start
ACL until you want to start the ACL uh
practice but it's only we have only 20
minutes left. So I think we will just
start doing it on Monday.
Okay.
So right now if you still don't have the
search working or maybe you want to just
play around with this practice
finish some elements. So just please do
and if you don't we can say goodbye.
It's up to you. I really don't want to
start next next practice when we have
only 20 minutes. Doesn't make sense.
Agreed. Yeah. I don't know if we need to
stay on then unless anybody else has
questions but um yeah I'm probably just
going to play on with this more on my
own and
Okay guys so let's basically finish for
today and if you'll have any questions
to this we'll start on Monday from those
questions. Um because yeah I saw
actually on your site that you have it
already.
So yeah we can go and have a weekend.
All right.
Already.
Okay. So thank you so much for today and
see you on Monday in case you'll have
any questions to this uh practice. We'll
start from it and then we're going to
switch to the ACL practice and that's
it.
Okay. Thank you.
Thank you so much. See you on Monday.
Yep. Bye-bye.
Bye.